This project aims to demonstrate my ability to integrate data analysis and data visualization with front end web development tools.
Appropos for a position at CFPB, the dataset I selected for this project is a massive collection of loan data, courtesty of Kaggle. 
(https://www.kaggle.com/wendykan/lending-club-loan-data)

About the Data:
As described on Kaggle, "These files contain complete loan data for all loans issued through the 2007-2015, 
including the current loan status (Current, Late, Fully Paid, etc.) and latest payment information. 
The file containing loan data through the "present" contains complete loan data for all loans issued through the 
previous completed calendar quarter. Additional features include credit scores, number of finance inquiries, address 
including zip codes, and state, and collections among others. The file is a matrix of about 890 thousand observations and 75 variables."

Preparing the Data:
I used simple R scripts to extract the variables of interest to this project. 
The R script is included in this folder. (Loan_Data_Subsets.R)
Furthermore, the CSV file generated by the script for each sample work is located in its respective folder.

Resources:
The D3 code used in these sample works borrows extensively from bl.ocks.org (a D3 script gallery), specifically from the 
works of Mike Bostock and Jens Grubert. Code was modified where necessary to accommodate and illustrate the chosen dataset.
Changes were also made to clarify and enhance the aesthetic elements of the charts.
The D3 code herein is NOT original; rather, it is demonstrative of my ability to comfortably navigate the JavaScript and D3
technologies and adapt the provided designs and solutions to a new problem. 

Screenshots:
Accompanying each sample work is a static screenshot of the visualization produced.

Continuing Work:
Over the coming days, I will continue to update this repository with more data visualizations for the loan data.
I will also integrate the D3 visualizations into larger web-pages, creating a site to narrate the story of this loan data.
